# topMusicArtists
Lab #3 - Who are the music artists (in alphabetical order)?

This java program reads in a CSV file of Spotify's Top 200 artist chart and outputs the data in ascending order by Artist name.

This repository contains a spotify_music.csv file containing the original chart downloaded from Spotify, the source code "topMusicArtists.java", and one output file "ArtistsSorted-WeekOf08302020.txt" that contains a sorted data(Artist names is alphabeical order) with no duplicates.

First, I used the multidimensional array from lab #2, to read the data from the csv file using .split() method. Next, I made an Artist class that will have the properties of an artist data like position, name, track, streams & url and methods like toString(), getName() and compareTo(). Next, using the LinkedList library of Java, I created a linkedlist to store the Artist object and named the class as TopStreamingArtists. TopStreamingArtists has a private LinkedList object of Artist type and contains add(), remove(), size(), getLinkedList(), sort(), and removeDuplicates() methods. The sort() mehtod in the linkedlist uses the collections library sort() method, and the removeDuplicates() uses LinkedHashMap to remove duplicates from the list. The reason I picked LinkedHashMap because it doesn't contain any duplicates and I can convert it back to linkedlist and assign it's values to my linkedlist. Since I am using the Collections sort method, my object class(Artist class) must be comparable. So I implemented the comparable interface in my Artist class and override the compareTo() method. I rewrote the compareTo() method because I want the Collections.sort() to sort my list based on the names of the Artist. Now in the main, I instantiate the TopStreamingArtists linkedlist and added all Artist from the multidimensional array. Then, I used the removeDuplicates() to remove duplicates and sort(0) to order my data in ascending order by Artists name. Then I printout the data by using the displayList() method in the output file. 
